elephants are resilient animals they can
survive all but the worst of droughts
but they're powerless against guns with
a single pair of tusks worth up to
$100,000 elephants are in big trouble
Frank and the anti-poaching team want to
make sure that no more elephants are
harmed they're patrolling an area where
poachers often enter the reserve how
often will you walk here very often four
days a week just down this river system
a river that you can see any suspicious
crossing these community rangers use
their local knowledge and traditional
tracking skills to catch ivory poachers
just the fact that these guys are out
and walking the poachers are also
watching everyone's tracks and here they
can see hey this is a this is a heavy
patrol that's come through here you know
we're in danger we're gonna stay away
from this area so there's a kind of a
dual role having left tracks in the dry
riverbed they climb a nearby hill for a
better vantage point from up here they
can see poachers coming for miles this
is where these guys keep a lookout for
any movement and then anything they see
they'll report to their headquarters as
much as we're trying to win this battle
elephants through hearts and minds at
the end of the day in law enforcement
that's what these guys are doing
community patrols are a key part of the
plan to stop ivory poaching
if they get it right in Samburu then
this model can be used to help protect
elephants elsewhere in Africa